---
layout: post
title: "Ruby"
date: 2016-11-06 21:52:52 +0800
comments: true
categories: Ruby

---

## irb

```
ruby -e ' puts "hello world" '
```

IRB(interactive ruby).

```
irb
```

## rvm

Ruby enVironment Manager.

```
gpg2 --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3
curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable --ruby
source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
```

```
rvm current
rvm list

rvm use ruby-1.9.3
gem install bundler
bundle install
```

```
RVM is not a function, selecting rubies with 'rvm use ...' will not work.
```

```
source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
```

## rake

```
rake aborted!
LoadError: cannot load such file -- bundler/setup
```

```
bundle exec rake
```

## Gemfile

The specifier `~>` has a special meaning, best shown by example. `~> 2.0.3` is identical to `>= 2.0.3` and `< 2.1`. `~> 2.1` is identical to `>= 2.1` and `< 3.0`. `~> 2.2.beta` will match prerelease versions like `2.2.beta.12`.

## bundler

```
no such file to load -- bundler/setup
```

```
sudo gem install bundler
```

### install

When you run `bundle install` the first time, bundler will resolve all of the dependencies, all the way down, and install what you need

Bundler remembers the exact versions it installed in `Gemfile.lock`. 

The next time you run `bundle install`, bundler skips the dependency resolution and installs the same gems as it installed last time.

### update

`bundle update` will ignore the `Gemfile.lock`, and resolve all the dependencies again.

* If the gems specified in `Gemfile` don't have version, it will upgrade to whatever latest.
* If the gems specified in `Gemfile` have version controlled with `~>`, it will upgrade to the latest at the final digit, the patch version.

```
bundle install --without production
```

### show

Use `bundle show [gemname]` to see where a bundled gem is installed.

### exec

If you want to run `rake db:migrate` where you’re asking Rake (which doesn’t neccessarily use Bundler to fetch dependencies) to run a couple of Rails’ tasks (that consumes Rails code and its dependencies). You’ll then need to run it as `bundle exec rake db:migrate` to make sure it’ll be using the proper Rails dependencies for your project.

----

## %w

`%w(foo bar)` is a shortcut for `["foo", "bar"]`. Meaning it's a notation to write an array of strings separated by spaces instead of commas and without quotes around them. 

## Array

```
Array(0..9)
=> [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
Array(0...9)
=> [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]
```

## STDOUT

```
STDOUT.sync = true
puts "hi, there"
STDOUT.flush
```
